Using endpoints, you can map each connection to the appropriate instance or group of instances based on your use case. For example, to perform DDL statements you can connect to whichever instance is the primary instance. To perform queries, you can connect to the reader endpoint, with Aurora automatically performing load-balancing among all the Aurora Replicas. For clusters with DB instances of different capacities or configurations, you can connect to custom endpoints associated with different subsets of DB instances. For diagnosis or tuning, you can connect to a specific instance endpoint to examine details about a specific DB instance.

The custom endpoint provides load-balanced database connections based on criteria other than the read-only or read-write capability of the DB instances. For example, you might define a custom endpoint to connect to instances that use a particular AWS instance class or a particular DB parameter group. Then you might tell particular groups of users about this custom endpoint. For example, you might direct internal users to low-capacity instances for report generation or ad hoc (one-time) querying, and direct production traffic to high-capacity instances.



**Configuring your application to use the reader endpoint for both production traffic and reporting queries, which will enable your Aurora database to automatically perform load-balancing among all the Aurora Replicas** is incorrect. Although it is true that a reader endpoint enables your Aurora database to automatically perform load-balancing among all the Aurora Replicas, it is quite limited to doing read operations only. You still need to use a custom endpoint to load-balance the database connections based on the specified criteria.

The option that says: **In your application, use the instance endpoint of your Aurora database to handle the incoming production traffic and use the cluster endpoint to handle reporting queries** is incorrect because a cluster endpoint (also known as a writer endpoint) for an Aurora DB cluster simply connects to the current primary DB instance for that DB cluster. This endpoint can perform write operations in the database such as DDL statements, which is perfect for handling production traffic but not suitable for handling queries for reporting since there will be no write database operations that will be sent. Moreover, the endpoint does not point to lower-capacity or high-capacity instances as per the requirement. A better solution for this is to use a custom endpoint.


