**Logging**
- Access logs need to be started, otherwise you wont get any logs for the S3. Either this or Cloudtrail.
---
**Bucker versioning and MFA**
- bucket version, once started cannot be stopped.
- When you try to delete a SPECIFIC image that had versions of it, just a deletion marker is added to it. and both the version is hidden. But you CAN delete the versioned object along with the delete marker. 
- can be suspended
- Space is consumed by all the versions, and similarly billing is done for all.
- MFA gets enabled by default, and you need to use MFA to delete versionns.
- MFA is required to change bucket state as well
- You can anable MFA to a normal S3 bucket as well, for security of deletion of objects.
---
**Lifecycle**
- Lifecycle is for a bucker or a group of objects
- tansition or expiration action sets off the rules for lifecycle
- There are minimum transitions between different classes, and most of tem are 30 days.
- one zone IA doestn goes to instant retirieval
- intelligent doesnt goes to one zone IA
- 
---
**Transfer Accelaration**
- Transfer Acceleration is about **speeding up the network transfer**, not the API request processing.
- Amazon S3TA takes advantage of Amazon CloudFront’s globally distributed edge locations. As the data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.
- There are no S3 data transfer charges when data is transferred in from the internet. 
- Also with S3TA, you pay only for transfers that are accelerated. 
---
**Replication**
- needs a role to access the other S3 bucket and send objects
- All objects or a subset
- Storage class is default same but can be changed
- IMPORTANT: versioning needs to ve on.
- unencrypted, can configure encryption
- Source bucket owner should have permission to move objects
- one way replication
- glacier cant be replicated
- cant delete
---
**encyption**
- objects are replicated, not buckets
- Its server side encryption....whatevs
- in SSE-S3, aws maanges the keys for your. it encrypts and decrypts, but you dont have access to the key. it rorates regularly and everything as well
- in SSSE-KMS, the key is generated in KMS, and since KMS is a managed key service, there will be an sudit trail as well well who can use it, and who used it, these details will be stored.
- in SSE-C youp provide the key, S# encrypts and decrypts the data. Amazon S3 manages the encryption, as it writes to disks, and decryption when you access your objects.
---
- S3 select, sllows SQL like statements to select only particular data required inside.
---
Types of classes

- The pricing is for storage. And for the transfer of data in is free, but the data out is billed per GB. and i price would be asked over 1000 requests, for 1000 get and put request, i suppose.
-
Standard- replicated in 3 azs atleast, no retrieval fee, per gb storage month fee, milisecond first byte latency, accessed frequently.
-
Standard IA- Storage is mminimum of 30 days, has a per gb data retrieval fee, overall cost increases with frequent access of object, long lived data, but infrequently accessed.
-
Standard one zone IA- same as standard IA, BUT data is REPLACEABLE, NON CRITICAL. Stored in one AZ, gives same durability.
-
Glacier instant- minimum 90 days, more costly retrieval fee compared to both the above, everything else is same, once a quater retrieval of data, but long lived, with milisecond access to your data.
-
glacier flexible- connot be public, takes time to retrieve, first byte latency is not in miiseconds, requires a retrieval process, archival data is stored with no ral time or frequent access to it.
-
Glacier Deep archive- much llnger retrieval process than flexible, legal or regulation data, very rarely used data.
-

---
Intelligent pairing
- Archive instant is same as galcier instant with 90 days minimum.
- Archive Access is same as glacier flexible but the days are between 90 to 270
- IF object arent accessed within 180 to 730 days, its movwd to deep archive, which is the same as glacier deep archive.
- if not accessed for 30 days, moves to infrequent access
costing
- if in the frequent access, then costs the same as standard
- infrequent is same as Standard IA
- archive instant=glacier instant
- archive access = flexible
- deep archive = glacier deep archive

- use when longlived data, changing and unkwon patterns
- **no retrieval fee**
---
multipart
- can be used with accelarated tranfer
- 5gb of object transfer can be divided into multiple parts

---

exam freshers

- your application can achieve at least 3,500 PUT/COPY/POST/DELETE or 5,500 GET/HEAD requests per second per prefix in a bucket
- the prefix question for put requests


